.. _notices_and_disclaimers:

Notices and Disclaimers
=======================


Intel technologies may require enabled hardware, software or service
activation.


No product or component can be absolutely secure.


Your costs and results may vary.


Â© Intel Corporation. Intel, the Intel logo, and other Intel marks are
trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries. Other names and
brands may be claimed as the property of others.


Intel's compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for
non-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel
microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3
instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the
availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on
microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor-dependent
optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel
microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel
microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer
to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information
regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice.


No license (express or implied, by estoppel or otherwise) to any
intellectual property rights is granted by this document.


The products described may contain design defects or errors known as
errata which may cause the product to deviate from published
specifications. Current characterized errata are available on request.


Intel disclaims all express and implied warranties, including without
limitation, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a
particular purpose, and non-infringement, as well as any warranty
arising from course of performance, course of dealing, or usage in
trade.

