.. _Controlling_Chunking:

Controlling Chunking
====================


Chunking is controlled by a *partitioner* and a *grainsize.*\  To gain
the most control over chunking, you specify both.


-  Specify ``simple_partitioner()`` as the third argument to
   ``parallel_for``. Doing so turns off automatic chunking.


-  Specify the grainsize when constructing the range. The thread
   argument form of the constructor is
   ``blocked_range<T>(begin,end,grainsize)``. The default value of
   ``grainsize`` is 1. It is in units of loop iterations per chunk.


If the chunks are too small, the overhead may exceed the performance
advantage.


The following code is the last example from parallel_for, modified to
use an explicit grainsize ``G``.


::


   #include "oneapi/tbb.h"
   Â 

   void ParallelApplyFoo( float a[], size_t n ) {
       parallel_for(blocked_range<size_t>(0,n,G), ApplyFoo(a), 
                    simple_partitioner());
   }


The grainsize sets a minimum threshold for parallelization. The
``parallel_for`` in the example invokes ``ApplyFoo::operator()`` on
chunks, possibly of different sizes. Let *chunksize* be the number of
iterations in a chunk. Using ``simple_partitioner`` guarantees that
[G/2] <= *chunksize* <= G.


There is also an intermediate level of control where you specify the
grainsize for the range, but use an ``auto_partitioner`` and
``affinity_partitioner``. An ``auto_partitioner`` is the default
partitioner. Both partitioners implement the automatic grainsize
heuristic described in :ref:`Automatic_Chunking`. An
``affinity_partitioner`` implies an additional hint, as explained later
in Section :ref:`Bandwidth_and_Cache_Affinity`. Though these partitioners
may cause chunks to have more than G iterations, they never generate
chunks with less than [G/2] iterations. Specifying a range with an
explicit grainsize may occasionally be useful to prevent these
partitioners from generating wastefully small chunks if their heuristics
fail.


Because of the impact of grainsize on parallel loops, it is worth
reading the following material even if you rely on ``auto_partitioner``
and ``affinity_partitioner`` to choose the grainsize automatically.


.. container:: tablenoborder


   .. list-table:: 
      :header-rows: 1

      * -     |image0|
        -     |image1|
      * -     Case A     
        -     Case B     




The above figure illustrates the impact of grainsize by showing the
useful work as the gray area inside a brown border that represents
overhead. Both Case A and Case B have the same total gray area. Case A
shows how too small a grainsize leads to a relatively high proportion of
overhead. Case B shows how a large grainsize reduces this proportion, at
the cost of reducing potential parallelism. The overhead as a fraction
of useful work depends upon the grainsize, not on the number of grains.
Consider this relationship and not the total number of iterations or
number of processors when setting a grainsize.


A rule of thumb is that ``grainsize`` iterations of ``operator()``
should take at least 100,000 clock cycles to execute. For example, if a
single iteration takes 100 clocks, then the ``grainsize`` needs to be at
least 1000 iterations. When in doubt, do the following experiment:


#. Set the ``grainsize`` parameter higher than necessary. The grainsize
   is specified in units of loop iterations. If you have no idea of how
   many clock cycles an iteration might take, start with
   ``grainsize``\ =100,000. The rationale is that each iteration
   normally requires at least one clock per iteration. In most cases,
   step 3 will guide you to a much smaller value.


#. Run your algorithm.


#. Iteratively halve the ``grainsize`` parameter and see how much the
   algorithm slows down or speeds up as the value decreases.


A drawback of setting a grainsize too high is that it can reduce
parallelism. For example, if the grainsize is 1000 and the loop has 2000
iterations, the ``parallel_for`` distributes the loop across only two
processors, even if more are available. However, if you are unsure, err
on the side of being a little too high instead of a little too low,
because too low a value hurts serial performance, which in turns hurts
parallel performance if there is other parallelism available higher up
in the call tree.


.. tip:: 
   You do not have to set the grainsize too precisely.


The next figure shows the typical "bathtub curve" for execution time
versus grainsize, based on the floating point ``a[i]=b[i]*c``
computation over a million indices. There is little work per iteration.
The times were collected on a four-socket machine with eight hardware
threads.


.. container:: fignone
   :name: fig2


   Wall Clock Time Versus Grainsize
   |image2|


The scale is logarithmic. The downward slope on the left side indicates
that with a grainsize of one, most of the overhead is parallel
scheduling overhead, not useful work. An increase in grainsize brings a
proportional decrease in parallel overhead. Then the curve flattens out
because the parallel overhead becomes insignificant for a sufficiently
large grainsize. At the end on the right, the curve turns up because the
chunks are so large that there are fewer chunks than available hardware
threads. Notice that a grainsize over the wide range 100-100,000 works
quite well.


.. tip:: 
   A general rule of thumb for parallelizing loop nests is to
   parallelize the outermost one possible. The reason is that each
   iteration of an outer loop is likely to provide a bigger grain of
   work than an iteration of an inner loop.



.. |image0| image:: Images/image002.jpg
   :width: 161px
   :height: 163px
.. |image1| image:: Images/image004.jpg
   :width: 157px
   :height: 144px
.. |image2| image:: Images/image006.jpg
   :width: 462px
   :height: 193px

